.\" DlpReadStorageInfo.3
.\" 
.\" Copyright 2001, Andrew Arensburger.
.\" You may distribute this file under the terms of the Artistic
.\" License, as specified in the README file.
.\"
.\" $Id: DlpReadStorageInfo.3,v 1.1 2001-09-05 07:29:27 arensb Exp $
.\"
.\" This man page uses the 'mdoc' formatting macros. If your 'man' uses
.\" the old 'man' package, you may run into problems.
.\"
.Dd Aug 16, 2001
.Dt DlpReadStorageInfo 3
.Sh NAME
.Nm DlpReadStorageInfo
.Nd short description
.Sh LIBRARY
.Pa libpconn
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <palm.h>
.Fd #include <pconn/pconn.h>
.Ft int
.Fn DlpReadStorageInfo "PConnection *pconn" "const ubyte card" "ubyte *last_card" "ubyte *more" "struct dlp_cardinfo *cinfo"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads information about a given memory card on the Palm.
.Fa card
is the number of the memory card. Card numbers start at 0.
.Pp
.Fa last_card
is filled in with the number of the last card retrieved.
.Pp
.Fa more
is filled in with a value. This ought to be non-zero if there are more
memory cards; however, this doesn't appear to be the case. This field
is currently useless.
.Pp
.Fa cinfo
is filled in with memory card information. The
.Ft dlp_cardinfo
structure is defined as
.Bd -literal -offset indent
struct dlp_cardinfo
{
	ubyte totalsize;
	ubyte cardno;
	uword cardversion;
	struct dlp_time ctime;
	udword rom_size;
	udword ram_size;
	udword free_ram;
	ubyte cardname_size;
	ubyte manufname_size;
	char cardname[DLPCMD_MEMCARD_LEN];
	char manufname[DLPCMD_MEMCARD_LEN];
	uword rom_dbs;
	uword ram_dbs;
};
.Ed
.Sh RETURN VALUE
.Nm
returns 0 if successful, or a negative value in case of error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libpconn 3 ,
.Xr new_PConnection 3 .
.SH BUGS
May not work if the Palm has more than one memory card.
