.\" coldsync.8
.\" $Id: coldsync.8,v 1.4 1999-11-02 03:31:24 arensb Exp $
.\" 
.\" This man page uses the 'mdoc' formatting macros. If your 'man' uses
.\" the old 'man' package, you may run into problems.
.Dd July 12, 1999
.Dt COLDSYNC 8 SMM
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm coldsync
.Nd synchronize files between a Palm and a workstation.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm coldsync
.\" -u<user|uid> -b<dir> -r<dir> -p<port> -F -S -R
.\" -d<fac[:level]>
.Op Fl hVSFR
.Op Fl d Ar debug
.Op Fl u Ar user|uid
.Op Fl f Ar config_file
.Fl p Ar device
.Nm coldsync
.Op Fl FSR
.Op Fl d Ar debug
.Fl b Ar dir
.Fl p Ar device
.Nm coldsync
.Op Fl FSR
.Op Fl d Ar debug
.Fl r Ar dir
.Fl p Ar device
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm coldsync
synchronizes databases between a Palm device and a workstation. If the
.Fl b Ar directory
option is specified,
.Nm coldsync
performs a full backup of the Palm to
.Ar directory .
When the
.Fl r Ar directory
option is specified,
.Nm coldsync
restores files from
.Ar directory
to the Palm. By default,
.Nm coldsync
performs a full sync (see below) with a Palm device listening on the
device given by the
.Fl p
option. Normally, the only reason to do a backup is to save the
contents of your Palm before doing something that might cause you to
lose data.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl h
(Help) Print a usage message and exit.
.It Fl V
Print the version number and exit.
.It Fl f Ar config_file
Tells
.Nm coldsync
to read its configuration from
.Pa config_file .
.It Fl S
Force a slow sync. Don't use this unless you know what you're doing.
.It Fl F
Force a fast sync. Don't use this unless you know what you're doing.
.It Fl R
Consider read-only (ROM) databases when syncing or doing a backup or
restore. Normally, these are ignored.
.It Fl p Ar device
Specifies the serial device, e.g.
.Pa /dev/cuaa0 ,
that the Palm is connected to.
.It Fl b Ar directory
Perform a full backup of the Palm, and put the files in
.Ar directory .
.Em NB:
This will not overwrite any existing files: if a backup file for a
database already exists in the backup directory, that database will
simply be skipped.
.It Fl r Ar directory
Restore files from
.Ar directory .
.Em Warning:
If you restore a database that already exists on the Palm, that
database will be overwritten.
.\" XXX - Not implemented yet
.\".It Fl u Aq user|uid
.\"Run as the specified user. This may be either a user name or a numeric
.\"UID.
.It Fl d Ar debug
Set debugging level. The argument
.Ar debug
can be either of the form
.Ar facility 
or
.Ar facility:level .
This sets the debugging level for the named facility. Facilities
currently include
.Dv SLP , CMP , PADP , DLP , DLPC , SYNC ,
and
.Dv MISC .
The
.Ar level
argument is an integer that specifies the verbosity of the output.
Unless you are a developer, you should probably never need to go above
5.
.El
.Ss Conduits and Syncing
(Note: conduits have not yet been fully implemented.)
.Pp
Syncing refers to the process of synchronizing the databases on the
Palm with a workstation. Typically, every database on the Palm will
have a corresponding backup file in the user's home directory. When a
Palm is synced with a machine, the two are updated with respect to
each other: records (e.g., address book entries or To Do items)
created on the Palm are copied to the workstation and vice-versa.
Records that were deleted on the Palm are deleted in the workstation's
file (and archived, if necessary), and vice-versa.
.Pp
However, the notion of syncing is broader than this: when you compose
a new mail message on the Palm, you don't want it to be copied to some
backup file, you want it to be sent to its recipient. This is
accomplished through the use of conduits.
.Pp
A conduit is a module that can be imagined as being connected to the
Palm on one end, and to the workstation on the other. Its job is to
make sure that everything is up to date: that anything that has
changed on the Palm has been dealt with on the workstation end, and
that any changes on the workstation have been uploaded to the Palm.
.\"  .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\"  .Sh EXAMPLES
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ~/.palm/archive -compact
.It Pa ~/.coldsyncrc
default configuration file.
.It Pa ~/.palm/backup
contains backup files for the Palm.
.It Pa ~/.palm/archive
contains records deleted from the Palm, but with the "Save archive on
PC" box checked.
.It Pa ~/.palm/install
contains files to be installed at the next sync.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pilot-xfer 1
.Rs
.%T Palm Database Files
.Re
.\" XXX - Not yet written
.\".Rs
.\".%T Conduit Tutorial
.\".Re
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Andrew Arensburger Aq arensb@ooblick.com
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
Many and hopefully self-explanatory.
.Sh BUGS
It is not possible to have more than one Palm device and keep their
contents separate.
.Pp
Configuration files are not yet implemented.
.Pp
If you've been syncing with one Palm, then get a replacement and
immediately sync with it, all of your old data will be archived. This
is probably not what you want.
.Pp
Probably many others.
