.\" coldsync.8
.\" 
.\" Copyright 1999-2001, Andrew Arensburger.
.\" You may distribute this file under the terms of the Artistic
.\" License, as specified in the README file.
.\"
.\" $Id: coldsync.8,v 1.47 2001-10-18 02:46:44 arensb Exp $
.\"
.\" This man page uses the 'mdoc' formatting macros. If your 'man' uses
.\" the old 'man' package, you may run into problems.
.Dd July 12, 1999
.Dt COLDSYNC 8 SMM
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm coldsync
.Nd synchronize files between a Palm and a workstation.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm coldsync
.Op Ar options
.Op Fl ms
.Nm coldsync
.Op Ar options
.Fl mI
.Nm coldsync
.Op Ar options
.Fl mb
.Ar dir
.Op database...
.Nm coldsync
.Op Ar options
.Fl mr
.Ar file|dir...
.Nm coldsync
.Op Ar options
.Fl md
.Ar port
.Nm coldsync
.Fl V
.Nm coldsync
.Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm coldsync
synchronizes databases between a Palm Computing device and a
workstation (see OVERVIEW, below). By default, it performs a full
sync, copying records from the Palm to the desktop and vice-versa
until both contain the same set of records.
.Pp
In backup mode,
.Nm coldsync
downloads databases from the Palm to a user-specified directory on the
workstation.
.Pp
In restore mode,
.Nm coldsync
uploads database files from the workstation to the Palm. This can be
used either to restore files after a backup, or to install new
databases on the Palm.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Ss Modes
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl mI
Initialization mode. Before you can sync a Palm, you must initialize
its user information. This may seem annoying, but it can prevent other
annoyances (e.g., losing all of your information the next time you
reset your Palm, or failing to work with HotSync). Note that backup
and restore mode do not require that the Palm be initialized.
.Pp
In this mode,
.Nm coldsync
sets the user name and ID on the Palm from values specified in your
.Pa .coldsyncrc .
If no values are specified there, the user name and ID default to your
full name and user ID from
.Pa /etc/passwd .
If the Palm already has non-default values that you haven't explicitly
overridden,
.Nm coldsync
will suggest what to add to your
.Pa .coldsyncrc .
.It Fl ms
Sync mode (or Standalone mode). This is the default mode, in which
.Nm coldsync
performs a full sync (see
.Sx OVERVIEW ,
below).
.It Fl mb
Backup mode, in which
.Nm coldsync
downloads databases from the Palm. The first argument is a directory
in which to write the files. Any subsequent arguments are the names of
databases to back up. If no databases are specified,
.Nm coldsync
does a full backup of the Palm.
.It Fl mr
Restore mode (or Install mode), in which
.Nm coldsync
installs the files given as arguments on the Palm. Each argument is
processed in turn; if it is a file, then that file is uploaded. If the
argument is a directory, then all files in that directory will be
uploaded (this is not recursive). If a database of the same name
exists on the Palm, that database is deleted.
.Pp
Note that in this mode, files are uploaded as-is. No Install conduits
are run.
.It Fl md
Daemon mode. Use this mode when running
.Nm coldsync
as a
.Nm getty
replacement, or from
.Pa /etc/inetd.conf .
This mode takes one argument, a port on which to listen. This can be
either a full pathname to a device file (e.g.,
.Pa /dev/ugen0 ) ,
a relative pathname (e.g.,
.Pa ugen0 ) ,
in which case the given pathname is assumed to be relative to
.Pa /dev ,
or the string
.Dq -
(a single dash), meaning stdin.
.Pp
.Nm ColdSync
waits for a connection on the given port, reads the username and user
ID from the Palm, and looks them up in
.Pa /usr/local/etc/palms .
If it finds a matching entry, it sets its UID to the appropriate user
(relinquishing root privileges in the process) and runs a normal sync.
.El
.Ss Common Options
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl h
(Help) Print a usage message and exit.
.It Fl V
Print version information and exit.
.It Fl v
Increase verbosity. Use this option multiple times to increase
verbosity still further.
.It Fl f Ar config_file
Tells
.Nm coldsync
to read its configuration from
.Pa config_file
instead of
.Pa ~/.coldsyncrc .
.It Fl S
Force a slow sync. Don't use this unless you know what you're doing.
.It Fl F
Force a fast sync. Don't use this unless you know what you're doing.
.It Fl I
Install all databases in
.Pa ~/.palm/install .
Normally,
.Nm coldsync
does not install databases if doing so would overwrite an existing
database with a higher modification number. This flag overrides this
behavior.
.It Fl z
Install new databases (and run Install conduits) after the main sync.
Normally databases in
.Pa ~/.palm/install
are installed (and Install conduits run) before the main sync.
.It Fl R
Consider read-only (ROM) databases when syncing or doing a backup or
restore. Normally, these are ignored.
.It Fl p Ar device
Specifies the device, e.g.
.Pa /dev/cuaa0
for serial connections, or
.Pa /dev/ugen0
for USB connections, that the Palm is connected to. If not specified,
this defaults to
.Pa /dev/palm .
.It Fl t Ar type
Specifies the device type for the
.Fl f
option. Legal values are
.Dv serial ,
.Dv usb ,
and
.Dv net .
.It Fl P Ar protocol
Specifies the serial protocol. Legal values are
.Dv default ,
.Dv full ,
and
.Dv simple .
(See the description of the
.Li protocol
option, below.)
.It Fl s
Log errors and warnings through
.Xr syslog 3 .
Messages are logged to the LOCAL0 facility.
.It Fl l Ar logfile
Log debugging messages to the file
.Pa logfile .
.Pa logfile
is created if it doesn't exist, or appended to if it does. This option
is more or less equivalent to the Bourne shell's
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	coldsync 2>logfile
.Ed
but is intended for cases in which
.Nm ColdSync
is run without a shell, e.g., from
.Nm inetd .
.It Fl d Ar debug
Set debugging level. The argument
.Ar debug
can be either of the form
.Ar facility 
or
.Ar facility:level .
This sets the debugging level for the named facility. If the debugging
level is not specified, it defaults to 1. Thus,
.Li -dmisc
is equivalent to
.Li -dmisc:1 .
Facilities currently include
.Dv SLP , CMP , PADP , DLP , DLPC ,
.Dv SYNC , PARSE , IO , MISC ,
and
.Dv NET .
The
.Ar level
argument is an integer that specifies the verbosity of the output.
Unless you are a developer, you should probably never need to go above
5.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	-d sync:5 -d misc:5
.Ed
is a good general-purpose debugging level. If you are having problems
with your
.Pa .coldsyncrc
file,
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	-d sync:4
.Ed
will print a summary of what
.Nm ColdSync
thinks your configuration file contains.
.El
.Sh OVERVIEW
To sync,
run
.Li coldsync
with the appropriate options. Place the Palm in its cradle and press
the HotSync button. Your Palm will display the messages
.Dq Connecting with the desktop ,
.Dq Identifying user ,
a series of
.Dq Synchronizing Pa filename
messages, and finally
.Dq HotSync complete.
At this point, you can remove the Palm from its cradle and use it
normally.
.Pp
Here's a summary of what goes on when you sync:
.Bl -enum -compact
.It
.Nm coldsync
starts, reads the
.Pa .coldsyncrc
file, and finds out which port it should listen on.
.It
You press the HotSync button.
.It
The Palm announces itself to
.Nm coldsync .
.It
.Nm coldsync
queries the Palm to find out what databases it has, who owns it, etc.
.It
If the
.Fl z
flag was not given,
.Nm coldsync
runs Install conduits on any files in the install directory (
.Pa ~/.palm/install
by default), then uploads to the Palm any files still in the install
directory after the Install conduits have run.
.It
.Nm coldsync
runs the Fetch conduits, to create the desktop copies of the
databases.
.It
The main sync:
.Nm coldsync
runs the Sync conduits for all databases on the Palm. By default,
.Nm coldsync
only runs the 
.Li [generic]
conduit, which synchronizes the database on the Palm with a backup
file on the workstation. This can be overridden, however.
.It
If the
.Fl z
option was given,
.Nm coldsync
runs Install conduits on any files in the install directory as
mentioned in step 5, then installs any databases left in the install
directory.
.It
The main sync ends. The Palm displays the message
.Dq HotSync complete.
You may remove the Palm from its cradle.
.It
.Nm coldsync
runs the Dump conduits. These can export the updated databases to
other formats.
.El
.Pp
When possible,
.Nm ColdSync
(specifically, the
.Li [generic]
Sync conduit) tries to be smart about how it syncs databases, and only
transfers those records that have changed since the last sync. At the
same time, it tries to be cautious, and never deletes anything that it
isn't sure should be deleted. For instance, if a record has changed
both on the Palm and on the desktop, ColdSync will create two records,
one with each version of the record, rather than risk deleting the
wrong record.
.Pp
By itself,
.Nm ColdSync
is simply a fancy backup program. Conduits make it more useful. A
conduit is simply a program that follows a certain protocol to read or
write Palm database files.
.Pp
For instance, if you have a
.Pa TODO
file that you want to keep in sync with the Palm
.Dq ToDo
application, you could use a pair of conduits to do so: a Fetch
conduit to convert your TODO file to a Palm database, and a Dump
conduit to convert the newly-synchronized database back to a text
file. If you'll look back at the sequence of events, above, you'll see
how this works.
.Pp
Currently, the only conduit flavors are
.Dq Install ,
.Dq Fetch ,
.Dq Dump ,
and
.Dq Sync .
Others may be added in the future.
.\" XXX - This section should probably be in a man page of its own.
.Sh CONFIGURATION FILE
.Nm ColdSync
reads its configuration from the file
.Pa .coldsyncrc
in the user's home directory, or from the file specified with the
.Fl f
command-line argument.
.Pp
The
.Pa .coldsyncrc
file contains
.Li listen , pda , options , 
and
.Li conduit
directives.
.Ss listen
.Li listen
directives are of the following forms:
.\" XXX - It'd be nice to have font changes inside the display, to
.\" indicate pathnames and whatnot.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
listen serial {
	device: /dev/palm;
	protocol: default;
	speed: 57600;
}

listen usb {			# BSD only
	device: /dev/ugen0;
}

listen net {
}
.Ed
.Pp
.Li listen serial
is used for serial Palms, infrared syncing, and for Handspring Visors
under Linux.
.Pp
The
.Li device
directive specifies the device to use; if omitted, it defaults to
.Pa /dev/palm .
The
.Li speed
directive specifies the speed at which to sync, in bytes per second.
If omitted or set to 0, the speed defaults to the speed suggested by
the Palm, or the fastest speed supported by the serial port, whichever
is slower.
.Pp
.Li listen usb
is used to sync a Handspring Visor using native USB mode. This only
works under *BSD.
.Pp
The
.Li device
directive specifies the device to use. If omitted, it defaults to
.Pa /dev/palm .
.Pp
.Li listen net
is used to listen for an incoming network HotSync connection.
.Pp
The
.Li protocol
directive specifies the protocol stack to use over this connection.
Think of it this way: the
.Li listen
line specifies whether you're using a regular phone, a cell phone, or
two tin cans and a string. The
.Li protocol
option specifies which language you'll be speaking.
.Pp
Legal values are
.Li default ,
.Li full ,
.Li simple ,
and
.Li net .
If omitted, the
.Li protocol
option defaults to
.Li default .
Most of the time,
.Li default
does the right thing. The main exception is for Palm m50x-es with USB
cradles. Under Linux, use:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
listen serial {
	protocol: simple;
}
.Ed
Under {Free,Net}BSD, use
.Bd -literal -offset indent
listen usb {
	protocol: full;
}
.Ed
.Pp
Currently, a configuration file should contain only one
.Li listen
block. If more than one
.Li listen
block is specified, only the first one will be used.
.Pp
If a device was specified on the command line with the
.Fl p
option,
.Nm ColdSync
ignores the one specified in the configuration file. If no device was
specified either on the command line or in the configuration file,
.Nm ColdSync
defaults to
.Pa /dev/palm .
.Ss pda
.Li pda
directives are of the form
.Bd -literal -offset indent
pda "My Palm" {
	snum: 10BX13C22K98-M;
	directory: /folks/arensb/.palmIII;
	username: "Gorko the Invincible";
	userid: 1234;
	default;
}
.Ed
All of these lines are optional. You may also use
.Li palm
as a synonym for
.Li pda .
.Pp
The PDA's name,
.Dq My Palm
in this example, is currently unused and may be omitted.
.Pp
The
.Li snum
line gives the Palm's serial number. You can get this number by selecting
.Dq Info
from the Palm's application launcher. In the above example,
.Li 10BX13C22K98
is the serial number, and the
.Li M
after the dash is the checksum. If you omit the checksum,
.Nm ColdSync
will calculate it for you and suggest that you add it to your
.Pa .coldsyncrc .
.Pp
You may also use the special value
.Li *Visor*
to represent the (binary) string that all Handspring Visors return as
their serial number. Since all Visors return the same
.Dq serial number ,
it is not possible to differentiate between Visors this way, but it is
possible to distinguish a Visor from other Palms.
.Pp
The
.Li directory
line specifies the root of the tree where
.Nm ColdSync
will put its files. If this line is omitted, the directory defaults to
.Pa ~/.palm .
.Pp
The
.Li username
and
.Li userid
entries allow you to specify the full name and user ID associated with
this Palm. This can be useful if you have licensed applications whose
license key depends on the user name. If the
.Li userid
is omitted, it defaults to the UID under which
.Nm ColdSync
is run. If
.Li username
is omitted, it defaults to the full name of the user running
.Nm ColdSync ,
as returned by
.Fn getpwuid .
.Pp
The
.Li default
flag indicates that this a default PDA block. It will be used if no
better match is found. Thus, if you specify
.Bd -literal -offset indent
pda {
	directory: /folks/arensb/.palm-generic;
	default;
}

pda {
	snum: 10BX13C22K99;
	directory: /folks/arensb/.palm-III;
}

pda {
	snum: 0123456789AB;
}
.Ed
.Nm ColdSync
will use the directory
.Pa /folks/arensb/.palm-III
to sync the Palm with serial number 10BX13C22K99. It will use the directory
.Pa /folks/arensb/.palm
to sync the Palm with serial number 0123456789AB (the directory defaults to
.Pa ~/.palm ).
For any other Palm devices,
.Nm ColdSync
will use the directory
.Pa /folks/arensb/.palm-generic .
.Pp
If you specify the serial number as the empty string,
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	snum: "";
.Ed
this refers to Palm devices without a serial number, e.g. the
PalmPilot. Unfortunately, if you have several such devices, it is not
possible to keep their contents separate through
.Li pda
directives.
.Pp
You may specify both a serial number and the
.Li default
flag. Since the serial number uniquely identifies a Palm, this is not
terribly useful unless you specify the empty string as the serial
number; this allows you to have one default for pre-3.0 Palms, and
another default for all others.
.Ss conduit
.\" XXX - Add mention of "arguments:" line.
.Li conduit
directives control the behavior of a conduit. The documentation for a
conduit should specify the values to use here.
.Pp
.Li conduit
directives are of the form
.Bd -literal -offset indent
conduit <flavor-list> {
	path: /path/to/conduit;
	type: <creator>/<type>;
	preference: <pref-creator>/<pref-id>;
	<flags>;
    arguments:
	<conduit-specific arguments>
}
.Ed
where
.Li <flavor-list>
is a comma-separated list of conduit flavors. Allowable conduit flavors are
.Li install ,
.Li fetch ,
.Li dump ,
and
.Li sync
(
.Li pre-fetch
and
.Li post-dump
are synonyms for
.Li fetch
and
.Li dump ,
respectively);
.Pa /path/to/conduit
is the pathname of the conduit;
.Li <creator>
is the database creator;
.Li <type>
is the database type.
For instance:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
conduit fetch {
	path: /usr/local/libexec/coldsync/addressbook-fetch;
	type: addr/DATA;
}
.Ed
The database creator and type should be specified in the documentation
for each conduit. You may also use either the empty string (
.Li \&"\&"
) or an asterisk (
.Li *
) for the type or creator, to indicate a wildcard:
.Dl type: addr/*;
makes the conduit apply to all databases with creator
.Li addr ,
.Dl type: */DATA;
makes the conduit apply to all databases with type
.Li DATA ,
and
.Dl type: */*;
makes the conduit apply to all databases. Only the last of these is
generally useful.
.Pp
You may specify several
.Li type
lines, e.g.,
.Bd -literal -offset indent
conduit fetch {
	path: /usr/local/libexec/coldsync/very-generic;
	type: addr/DATA;
	type: memo/DATA;
	type: graf/macr;
}
.Ed
This conduit will match any of the three creator/type pairs.
.Pp
.Li preference
directives specify which preferences the conduit is interested in.
.Li pref
is a synonym for
.Li preference .
.Pp
Preferences are bits of configuration data stored in a pair of shared
databases on the Palm. They include pretty much everything you can set
through the
.Dq Prefs
application, but also things such as your signature from the
.Dq Mail
application.
.Pp
Preferences are stored in two databases:
.Dq Saved Preferences
and
.Dq Unsaved Preferences .
If you know (and care) in which database a given preference is
defined, you can specify it with the
.Li saved
and
.Li unsaved
keywords:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	pref: saved mail/3;
	pref: unsaved exps/1;
.Ed
.Pp
If neither
.Li saved
nor
.Li unsaved
is specified,
.Nm ColdSync
will try them both.
.Pp
The following flags are defined for conduit blocks:
.Li default
and
.Li final .
.Pp
The
.Li default
flag indicates that this is a default conduit, and should be run only
if no other matching conduit is specified later on. The
.Li default
flag works in conjunction with the
.Li type
specification:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
conduit dump {
	path: /usr/bin/default-todo;
	type: todo/*;
	default;
}
.Ed
only applies to databases with creator
.Li todo .
If two or more default conduits apply to a database, only the last one
specified will be run.
.Pp
The
.Li final
flag indicates that
.Nm ColdSync
should not consider any other conduits after this one. It works in
conjunction with the
.Li type
specification:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
conduit fetch {
	path: /usr/bin/fetch-mail;
	type: mail/DATA;
	final;
}

conduit fetch {
	path: /usr/bin/generic-fetch;
	type: */*;
}
.Ed
In this example, only
.Pa /usr/bin/fetch-mail
will be run for databases with creator
.Li mail
and type
.Li DATA ,
even though the second conduit block also applies.
.Pp
A conduit block may also contain conduit-specific arguments, e.g.,
.Bd -literal -offset indent
conduit dump {
	path: /usr/bin/send-mail
	type: mail/DATA;
    arguments:
	Sendmail: /usr/sbin/sendmail;
	Signature: /home/arensb/.palm-signature;
	DSN: return-receipt;
}
.Ed
All of the lines following the
.Li arguments:
line are passed to the conduit, and may be used to modify its
behavior. These arguments are conduit-dependent, and thus will be
described in the documentation for each conduit.
.Ss Built-In Conduit
Instead of a pathname to a program or script, you may also specify the
string
.Li [generic]
(with the brackets) to specify that you want to use the built-in
generic conduit:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
conduit sync {
	type: */*;
	path: [generic];
	default;
}
.Ed
.Pp
The generic conduit is a Sync conduit. By default, it handles every
database unless that database has another Sync conduit specified. If
you wish to run another Sync conduit on a database, you will need to
specify explicitly in your
.Pa .coldsyncrc
whether you want it to run before or after the generic conduit, or
whether the generic conduit should be run at all.
.Pp
.Ss options
.Li options
directives are of the form
.Bd -literal -offset indent
option {
	CONDUITDIR: "$(CONDUITDIR):$(HOME)/.palm/conduits";
	key:  "this is the value";
}
.Ed
Options behave like shell variables, in that you may use them later on in the
configuration file.  In fact, if you do not set an option before you use it,
coldsync will try to use your environment variables to set it.
Options may only be used inside quoted strings.
.Pp
The most useful option is $(CONDUITDIR), which is the search path for conduits.
.Ss Quoting
Values on the right side of a colon may be enclosed in double quotes.
That is you can write either
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	path: /usr/bin/myconduit;
.Ed
or
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	path: "/usr/bin/myconduit";
.Ed
It is always safe to quote a value. The quotes may be omitted if the
value does not contain whitespace or punctuation that might confuse
the parser.
.Pp
If a string is enclosed in double quotes, it may contain standard escape
characters, or option substitution, such as $(CONDUITDIR). Options are set
in the 
.Li options
section mentioned above.
.Pp
PDA names may also be quoted, subject to the same rules. That is, you
may say
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	pda MyPalm {
.Ed
or
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	pda "My Palm" {
.Ed
but not
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	pda My Palm {
.Ed
.Pp
Note: if you choose to quote the right-hand side of a
.Li type
statement, you must quote both the creator and the type. That is, you
may write
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	type: addr/DATA;
.Ed
or
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	type: "addr"/"DATA";
.Ed
but not
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	type: "addr/DATA";
.Ed
.Sh THE PALMS FILE
.Pa /usr/local/etc/palms
lists known Palms and their associated users. Each entry is on a
single line, with fields separated by vertical bar (pipe) characters:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	serial|username|userid|luser|name|conf_fname
.Ed
.Bl -tag -width password -offset indent
.It serial
The serial number of the Palm, or the empty string if none or missing.
.It username
The username on the Palm.
.It userid
The user ID on the Palm.
.It luser
The local (Unix) username or UID to setuid() to.
.It name
The Palm's name in
.Pa .coldsyncrc .
.It conf_fname
Full pathname of a configuration file to use.
.El
.Pp
.Nm name
and
.Nm conf_fname
are optional, and may be omitted.
.Pp
Note, however, that the format of this is still in development, and
may change in the future.
.Sh WARNINGS
.Ss The Bargle Bug
While you can choose any user ID you like for the Palm, you should
avoid using 0 (this also means that you should avoid running
.Nm ColdSync
as root): if you do, you risk being bitten by the Bargle Bug.
.Pp
If you perform a hard reset of your Palm, or upgrade to a new one, you
can lose all of your backup data:
.Nm ColdSync
doesn't notice and assumes that you've chosen to delete everything on
your Palm.
.Pp
To guard against this woeful fate,
.Nm ColdSync
requires the Palm to be initialized with a user name and userid.
.Ss Upgrades
Every so often, Palm announces a PalmOS upgrade. Some of these
upgrades are simple and consist of a
.Pa .prc
file that you need to upload. It's probably safe to apply this upgrade
by copying the
.Pa .prc
file to
.Pa ~/.palm/install
and syncing.
.Pp
Other upgrades are more complex, and
.Nm ColdSync
can't handle them. For these, you'll need to follow Palm's
instructions.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ~/.palm/archive -compact
.It Pa ~/.coldsyncrc
user's configuration file.
.It Pa /usr/local/etc/coldsync.conf
site-wide configuration file.
.It Pa /usr/local/etc/palms
list of known Palms
.It Pa ~/.palm
The default root of the backup tree (\,
.Em palmdir ,
below).
.\" .It Pa ~/.palm/backup
.It Em palmdir Ns Pa /backup
contains backup files for the Palm.
.\" .It Pa ~/.palm/backup/Attic
.It Em palmdir Ns Pa /backup/Attic
contains databases that have been deleted from the Palm.
.\" .It Pa ~/.palm/archive
.It Em palmdir Ns Pa /archive
contains records deleted from the Palm, but with the "Save archive on
PC" box checked.
.\" .It Pa ~/.palm/install
.It Em palmdir Ns Pa /install
contains files to be installed at the next sync.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pilot-xfer 1
.Rs
.%T Palm Database Files
.Re
.Rs
.%T ColdSync Conduits
.Re
.Rs
.%T http://usbvisor.sourceforge.net/Handspring-Visor-mini-HOWTO
.Re
Explains how to sync a Handspring Visor under Linux.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Andrew Arensburger Aq arensb@ooblick.com
.An Louis A. Mamakos Aq louie@TranSys.COM :
USB support.
.An And a cast of several.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
Many and hopefully self-explanatory.
.Sh LIMITATIONS
.Pp
.Nm ColdSync
does not detect the serial number on Handspring Visors (and some Palm
PDAs). This is because the Visor does not appear to have a
software-readable serial number. The pda block for a Visor should
contain
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	snum: "*Visor*";
.Ed
.Pp
Under Linux,
.Nm ColdSync
often spits out copious amounts of "Bad CRC" messages. This is due to
Linux's flaky serial driver.
.Nm ColdSync
does not deal with categories. This is due to the way the AppInfo
block (which contains the categories) is implemented. However,
conduits can deal with categories.
.Sh BUGS
.Pp
In the
.Pa .coldsyncrc
file, file and directory names must be specified as absolute
pathnames.
.Pp
.Nm ColdSync
does not sync
.Pa .prc
files. It makes a backup if there is isn't one already, but that's it.
If you upgrade from version 1.0 of an application to version 2.0,
.Nm ColdSync
will not back up the new version. In addition, most of the preferences
in the Prefs application are saved in
.Pa .prc
files, so
.Nm ColdSync
does not maintain backups of them.
.Pp
There is as yet no tool for manipulating archive files.
.Pp
All network addresses are assumed to be IPv4 addresses.
.Pp
It appears that syncing with a machine other than that with which you
normally sync might cause a database to lose its category information.
.Pp
Under FreeBSD, if you have both a Visor and another device plugged
into the USB port, ColdSync might not be able to find the Visor
correctly.
.Pp
If a conduit block contains several
.Li pref:
lines, it will only be given one preference.
.Pp
Probably many others.
