.\" DlpReadDBList.3
.\" 
.\" Copyright 2001, Andrew Arensburger.
.\" You may distribute this file under the terms of the Artistic
.\" License, as specified in the README file.
.\"
.\" $Id: DlpReadDBList.3,v 1.1 2001-09-05 07:29:16 arensb Exp $
.\"
.\" This man page uses the 'mdoc' formatting macros. If your 'man' uses
.\" the old 'man' package, you may run into problems.
.\"
.Dd Aug 16, 2001
.Dt DlpReadDBList 3
.Sh NAME
.Nm DlpReadDBList
.Nd get information about databases on a PalmOS device
.Sh LIBRARY
.Pa libpconn
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <palm.h>
.Fd #include <pconn/pconn.h>
.Ft int
.Fn DlpReadDBList "PConnection *pconn" "const ubyte iflags" "const int card" "const uword start" "uword *last_index" "ubyte *oflags" "ubyte *num" "struct dlp_dbinfo *dbs"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads information about databases on the Palm.
.Pp
.Fa card
specifies the number of the memory card on which to look. Card numbers
begin at 0.
.Pp
.Fa iflags
specifies which databases to retrieve. It is the bitwise-or of one or
more of the following:
.Bl -tag -width "LIS" -compact -offset indent
.It Dv DLPCMD_READDBLFLAG_RAM
RAM databases
.It Dv DLPCMD_READDBLFLAG_ROM
ROM (read-only) databases
.It Dv DLPCMD_READDBLFLAG_MULT
Return multiple database entries (available as of DLP v1.2).
.El
.Pp
.Fa start
specifies the number of the first database to read.
.Pp
.Fa last_index
is filled in with the index of the last database read.
.Pp
.Fa oflags
is filled in with output flags. The only one defined is
.Bl -tag -width "LIS" -compact -offset indent
.It Dv DLPRET_READDBLFLAG_MORE
There are more databases after these.
.El
.Pp
.Fa dbs
is filled in with descriptions of the databases.
.Sh RETURN VALUE
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libpconn 3 .
.Sh BUGS
.Dv DLPCMD_READDBLFLAG_MULT
doesn't work.
