.\" RDLP_MemHandleNew.3
.\" 
.\" Copyright 2001, Andrew Arensburger.
.\" You may distribute this file under the terms of the Artistic
.\" License, as specified in the README file.
.\"
.\" $Id: RDLP_MemHandleNew.3,v 1.1 2001-09-05 07:29:47 arensb Exp $
.\"
.\" This man page uses the 'mdoc' formatting macros. If your 'man' uses
.\" the old 'man' package, you may run into problems.
.\"
.Dd Aug 16, 2001
.Dt RDLP_MemHandleNew 3
.Sh NAME
.Nm RDLP_MemHandleNew ,
.Nm RDLP_MemMove ,
.Nm RDLP_MemReadable
.Nd PalmOS memory-manipulation functions
.Sh LIBRARY
.Pa libpconn
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <palm.h>
.Fd #include <pconn/pconn.h>
.Ft int
.Fn RDLP_MemHandleNew "PConnection *pconn" "udword size"
.Ft int
.Fn RDLP_MemMove "PConnection *pconn" "ubyte *dst" "const udword src" "const udword len"
.Ft int
.Fn RDLP_MemReadable "PConnection *pconn" "udword addr"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Presumably,
.Nm RDLP_MemHandleNew
allocates a new memory chunk of
.Fa size
bytes, and returns a pointer to it.
.Pp
.Nm RDLP_MemMove
reads a region of memory, and returns it.
.Pp
.Fa dst
is a pointer to a buffer that will be filled in with the desired
memory region.
.Pp
.Fa src
is the starting address of the region to read.
.Pp
.Fa len
specifies the length of the region to read.
.Pp
Presumably
.Nm RDLP_MemReadable
tests whether a given memory address exists and is readable.
.Sh RETURN VALUE
These functions all return the contents of the Palm's D0 register
after the function call, or a negative value in case of error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libpconn 3 ,
.Xr DlpRPC 3 .
.Sh BUGS
.Nm RDLP_MemHandleNew
and
.Nm RDLP_MemReadable
are untested.
