.\" coldsync.8
.\" $Id: coldsync.8,v 1.8 2000-01-22 04:59:38 arensb Exp $
.\" 
.\" Copyright 1999, 2000, Andrew Arensburger.
.\" You may distribute this file under the terms of the Artistic
.\" License, as specified in the README file.
.\"
.\" This man page uses the 'mdoc' formatting macros. If your 'man' uses
.\" the old 'man' package, you may run into problems.
.Dd July 12, 1999
.Dt COLDSYNC 8 SMM
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm coldsync
.Nd synchronize files between a Palm and a workstation.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm coldsync
.Op Fl hVSFR
.Op Fl p Ar device
.Op Fl d Ar debug
.Op Fl u Ar user|uid
.Op Fl f Ar config_file
.Nm coldsync
.Op Fl FSR
.Op Fl p Ar device
.Op Fl d Ar debug
.Fl b Ar dir
.Nm coldsync
.Op Fl FSR
.Op Fl p Ar device
.Op Fl d Ar debug
.Fl r Ar dir
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm coldsync
synchronizes databases between a Palm device and a workstation. If the
.Fl b Ar directory
option is specified,
.Nm coldsync
performs a full backup of the Palm to
.Ar directory .
When the
.Fl r Ar directory
option is specified,
.Nm coldsync
restores files from
.Ar directory
to the Palm. By default,
.Nm coldsync
performs a full sync (see below) with a Palm device listening on the
device given by the
.Fl p
option. Normally, the only reason to do a backup is to save the
contents of your Palm before doing something that might cause you to
lose data.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl h
(Help) Print a usage message and exit.
.It Fl V
Print the version number and exit.
.It Fl f Ar config_file
Tells
.Nm coldsync
to read its configuration from
.Pa config_file
instead of
.Pa ~/.coldsyncrc .
.It Fl S
Force a slow sync. Don't use this unless you know what you're doing.
.It Fl F
Force a fast sync. Don't use this unless you know what you're doing.
.It Fl R
Consider read-only (ROM) databases when syncing or doing a backup or
restore. Normally, these are ignored.
.It Fl p Ar device
Specifies the serial device, e.g.
.Pa /dev/cuaa0 ,
that the Palm is connected to. If not specified, this defaults to
.Pa /dev/palm .
.It Fl b Ar directory
Perform a full backup of the Palm, and put the files in
.Ar directory .
.Em NB:
This will not overwrite any existing files: if a backup file for a
database already exists in the backup directory, that database will
simply be skipped.
.It Fl r Ar directory
Restore files from
.Ar directory .
.Em Warning:
If you restore a database that already exists on the Palm, that
database will be overwritten.
.It Fl d Ar debug
Set debugging level. The argument
.Ar debug
can be either of the form
.Ar facility 
or
.Ar facility:level .
This sets the debugging level for the named facility. If the debugging
level is not specified, it defaults to 1. Thus,
.Li -dmisc
is equivalent to
.Li -dmisc:1 .
Facilities currently include
.Dv SLP , CMP , PADP , DLP , DLPC , SYNC ,
and
.Dv MISC .
The
.Ar level
argument is an integer that specifies the verbosity of the output.
Unless you are a developer, you should probably never need to go above
5.
.El
.Sh CONFIGURATION FILE
.Nm ColdSync
reads its configuration from the file
.Pa .coldsyncrc
in the user's home directory, or from the file specified with the
.Fl f
command-line argument.
.Pp
The
.Pa .coldsyncrc
file contains
.Li listen
and
.Li conduit
directives.
.Li listen
directives are of the form
.\" XXX - It'd be nice to have font changes inside the display, to
.\" indicate pathnames and whatnot.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	listen serial {
		device "/dev/palm";
	}
.Ed
where
.Pa /dev/palm
is the pathname to your serial device. Currently, only one serial
device may be specified.
.Pp
(If you don't understand the next bit, don't worry.)
.Pp
.Li conduit
directives are of the form
.Bd -literal -offset indent
conduit <flavor> {
	path "/path/to/conduit";
	type "<creator>"/"<type>";
}
.Ed
where
.Li <flavor>
is the conduit flavor, either
.Li fetch
or
.Li dump
(
.Li pre-fetch
and
.Li post-dump
are synonyms for
.Li fetch
and
.Li dump ,
respectively);
.Pa /path/to/conduit
is the pathname of the conduit;
.Li <creator>
is the database creator;
.Li <type>
is the database type.
For instance:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
conduit fetch {
	path "/usr/local/libexec/coldsync/addressbook-fetch";
	type "addr"/"DATA";
}
.Ed
The database creator and type should be specified in the documentation
for each conduit. You may also use the empty string (
.Li \&"\&"
) for the type or creator, to indicate a wildcard. This is not
generally useful, though.
.Pp
If a device was specified on the command line,
.Nm ColdSync
ignores the one specified in the configuration file. If no device was
specified either on the command line or in the configuration file,
.Nm ColdSync
defaults to
.Pa /dev/palm .
.Sh CONDUITS AND SYNCING
.Em Syncing
refers to the process of synchronizing the Palm with a Unix
workstation. By default,
.Nm ColdSync
keeps a copy each database on the Palm in a
.Pa .pdb
or
.Pa .prc
file in
.Pa ~/.palm/backup .
When it syncs,
.Nm ColdSync
examines the differences between each database on the Palm and its
backup file, and makes whatever changes are necessary to make their
contents identical: if a record has been added on the Palm, it will be
downloaded to the backup file; if a record has been deleted from the
backup file, it will be deleted on the Palm as well.
.Pp
After a successful sync,
.Nm ColdSync
notes, on the Palm, the IP address of the last workstation that it
synced with. That way, if the next time you sync with the same
workstation,
.Nm ColdSync
can simply look at the records that have changed since the last sync.
Otherwise, it needs to download every database from the Palm and
compare it to the version that it has in
.Pa ~/.palm/backup ,
which is much slower.
.Pp
While simple syncing is useful, it's possible to do better. That's
where conduits come in. A
.Em conduit
is a program that helps the Palm communicate with other applications.
Typically, this means that a conduit converts
.Pa .pdb
files to the other application's format or vice-versa.
.Pp
Conduits come in several varieties, called
.Em flavors .
Currently, the only flavors defined are
.Dq Fetch
and
.Dq Dump .
A Fetch conduit runs before the main sync, and is intended to create a
.Pa .pdb
file from some other file. A Dump conduit runs after the main sync,
and is intended to convert the
.Pa .pdb
file to some other format.
.Pp
An example might help. Let's say that you use
.Pa kab ,
the KDE address book, and that you have two conduits,
.Pa kab-fetch
and
.Pa kab-dump ,
that convert between
.Nm kab
and the Palm
.Pa Address Book
application. Since
.Pa Address Book
keeps its data in a database with creator
.Li addr
and type
.Li DATA ,
you'd add the following to your
.Pa .coldsyncrc :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
conduit fetch {
	path "/usr/local/libexec/coldsync/kab-fetch";
	type "addr"/"DATA";
}
conduit dump {
	path "/usr/local/libexec/coldsync/kab-fetch";
	type "addr"/"DATA";
}
.Ed
.Pp
When
.Nm ColdSync
runs, it will first run
.Pa kab-fetch
which reads the
.Nm kab
list of addresses and writes them to
.Pa ~/.palm/backup/AddressDB.pdb .
Then
.Nm ColdSync
performs the main sync, compares
.Pa ~/.palm/backup/AddressDB.pdb
to what's on the Palm, and brings the two up to date. Then it runs
.Pa kab-dump
which reads
.Pa ~/.palm/backup/AddressDB.pdb
and writes the contents back to the
.Nm kab
address file. This way, you can add, delete or edit addresses either
on the Palm or in
.Nm kab ,
and the changes will be propagated everywhere.
.Pp
Alternately, if you only have the Fetch conduit listed in
.Pa .coldsyncrc ,
you'll have a
.Dq desktop overwrites Palm
setup, where
.Nm kab
holds the master list of addresses, and any changes you make on the
Palm will be lost the next time you sync.
.Pp
Similarly, if you only have the Dump conduit in your
.Pa .coldsyncrc ,
you'll have a
.Dq Palm overwrites desktop
setup, where the master list of addresses is on the Palm, and any
changes made in
.Nm kab
will be lost the next time you sync.
.Pp
For information on writing your own conduits, see
.%T ColdSync Conduits
.\" XXX
(forthcoming).
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ~/.palm/archive -compact
.It Pa ~/.coldsyncrc
configuration file.
.It Pa ~/.palm/backup
contains backup files for the Palm.
.It Pa ~/.palm/backup/Attic
contains databases that have been deleted from the Palm.
.It Pa ~/.palm/archive
contains records deleted from the Palm, but with the "Save archive on
PC" box checked.
.It Pa ~/.palm/install
contains files to be installed at the next sync.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pilot-xfer 1
.Rs
.%T Palm Database Files
.Re
.Rs
.\" XXX - Not yet written
.%T ColdSync Conduits
.Re
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Andrew Arensburger Aq arensb@ooblick.com
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
Many and hopefully self-explanatory.
.Sh BUGS
It is not possible to have more than one Palm device and keep their
contents separate.
.Pp
If you've been syncing with one Palm, then get a replacement and
immediately sync with it, all of your old data will be archived. This
is probably not what you want.
.Pp
There is as yet no tool for manipulating archive files.
.Pp
Probably many others.
